

# Simple Linear Regression

Linear regression is the approximation of a linear model used to describe the relationship between two or more variable. There are dependent and independent variables. The dependent variable are depend on the independent variable, meaning the if the independent variable changes the dependent variable will also change. 

Simple Linear regression is when one independent variable is used to estimate a dependent variable. 

A linear regression problem can be shown as a graph, with x being the independent variable and y being the dependent variable. This allow us to draw a line of best fit. We find the bes coefficients for the line. In a line graph these can be described as the gradient and y-intercept.

Linear regression estimates the coefficients for the gradient and y-intercept by fitting to the data given. The best line is when the MSE is error the smallest. 

# Multiple Linear Regression

When more than one independent variable is present this multiple linear regression. 

Multiple linear regression can be used to identify the effectiveness of the independent variables.

As well as, it can be used to predicted the impact of the changes that will occurs for the dependent variable if the independent variables changed. 

# Model Evaluation 

Use a Test set to evaluate the prediction made by the model. Compare the actual and prediction to evaluate the model. 

### Error
The error is the difference between the data points and the trend line generated by the algorithm. 

#### Mean squared Error (MSE)
This is the mean of the squared errors. This is prefered over the absolute error because the focus is geared towards the large errors. 

#### Root Mean squared Error (RMSE)
This is the square root of the MSE. 

#### Relative Absolute error (RAE)
Also known as the residual sum of squares, where y-bar is a mean value of the simple predictor. 

#### Relative Squared error (RSE)
This is used to calculate the R<sup>2</sup> value, where R<sup>2</sup> = 1 - RSE.

# Non-Linear Regression
This models a non linear relationship between the dependent variable and set of independent variables. y hat must be a non linear function of the parameter a. 
